# DHL 4x6" label

This repository provides a solution to crop a **DHL transport label** from an **A4 horizontal** format to a **4x6" label** PDF using **Ghostscript**. The original label generated by DHL is in **A4 horizontal format**, with the label on the left and white space on the right. This command crops the original label into a **4x6"** format, perfect for printing on standard **4x6" labels**.

## Requirements

You need to have **Ghostscript** installed on your system for this tool to work. On **macOS** and **Linux**, Ghostscript is typically installed by default. However, if it's not already installed, you can easily install it using your system's package manager.

On **Windows**, Ghostscript is not installed by default, but it can be downloaded [from the official website](https://www.ghostscript.com/download.html). After installing Ghostscript, make sure it's added to your system's PATH environment variable so that it can be accessed from the command line.

## Usage

To crop a **4x6" label** from your input DHL PDF, run the following **Ghostscript** command:

```bash
gs -o cropped.pdf -sDEVICE=pdfwrite -c "[/CropBox [57 50 395 555] /PAGES pdfmark" -f TransportLabel_XXXXXXXXXX.pdf
```

### Command explanation:

- `gs`: Invokes **Ghostscript** for PDF manipulation.
- `-o cropped.pdf`: Specifies the output PDF file name (`cropped.pdf`). You can rename it to your liking.
- `-sDEVICE=pdfwrite`: Sets the output device to PDF.
- `-c "[/CropBox [57 50 395 555] /PAGES pdfmark"`: Defines the cropping box to extract a **4x6" label** from the input PDF. The coordinates `[57 50 395 555]` define the area to crop. After some trial and error, I came up with these coordinates which should correctly crop the original label.
- `-f TransportLabel_XXXXXXXXXX.pdf`: The input PDF file. Replace `TransportLabel_XXXXXXXXXX.pdf` with the name of your PDF file. By DHL convention, the PDF label provided by them contains the tracking (waybill) number in the file name, after the underscore.
